or if I did it the wrong way I did the
right way ha I can record now this is
the August 13 package managers sprint
planning plus weekly check-in so public
forum sort of thing I'm hey oh did I say
the things I'm going to share my screen
in case we'd like to use the board
excuse me sorry let's see we did updates
not looking so this week what are we
doing sorry my brain still dead is this
all has that had things changed there's
about the same I can't go through do
things need to change this week what
would we like to do this week that sort
of thing you know I have some options
for what I do next week it's no longer
super constrained to like it must be a
and then B and C um so I have some
thoughts but if anyone like has any
priorities mostly I don't know Andrew
Andrew has any priorities of anything
you'd like to see from me then then that
would be helpful um basically like the
PR the PR is required to make the IPS
things usable will hopefully are will
end soon regardless of how much time I
put into it it's basically like just
it's like this close just a little bit
of back and forth and so after that it's
like all right cool like what next and I
can either start working on more
performance related pub/sub things which
needs to get done and have ongoing PRS
or I can work on things like make sure
that your arcane s things are pinned our
pin locally and we'll restart publishing
them when you restart your daemon they
all have to get done but if there's a
priority ordering then you get to know
that
I'm trying to remember from what we
talked about last week it's always it's
yeah this always happens every Monday
and you're anybody else have opinions if
you're confused if you open up the
there's like five check boxes the ocean
oh yeah box number one or moving thank
you
sorry which number 82 a tube perfect
thank you thank you for sticking me out
of that hole oh yeah totally talked
about this yes the question is are we
ready to move to number two or if no one
needs number two just yet I'll just keep
hanging out in pub sub things until
that's all cleared up reading
everyone's making shrug faces okay
nobody has a super strong priority
opinion unless and Ryota Sudha moment to
think about which might be more useful
for our use cases I think the the order
is that nothing from what we talked
about before seems to change from a
priority point of view and I think I
guess the the main thing to work out is
like how does how to unblock a Dean most
effectively so that you can not go mad
in there or not wait and kind of end up
bouncing between PRS too much but I
don't know that if there's there's an
obvious route there Levine you think
this I've gotten used to some of the
bouncing in the sense like I'm gonna one
thought I had and I talked with Stephen
a little bit about this is seeing if
there is um as part of trying to like
separate out the IPS stuff into a
separate library in which I should add
on here as a thing to do it's not really
a feature as much as like make things
easier for people that plus the pub/sub
stuff see if there's ways I can make
this like slightly reusable there's like
a few non-ips specific cases where we in
theory could make use of this like
distributing information on like what
the relays are without making everyone
do DHT queries and not know when to stop
because apparently we we we do a lot of
asking about relays given that everyone
is behind an app and maybe we shouldn't
do that because you should just know who
they are so there's like a few options
about that and there's an issue I can
link to but it's sort of I'm just trying
to keep like another goal in mind
given that the file system package
manager IPS goal is not
NEADS has much fewer has was sort of
designed to have much fewer IQs demands
because at the time it was super
unreliable my understanding is the IPS
over DNS is blocked right now on hugo
creating a spec for what's been done and
JSI BFS is that correct or is this
unblock now it's dominic go ahead
you can either
you
hoped if you plug it in first
if you tried turning it off and on again
you
I think the TLDR because I think I know
is that it is it is blocked but also we
didn't put a high he is aware that if we
want to make it a higher priority for
him to get the speck out we can do that
but we haven't flagged that for him as
something you want to do
so that's I think that's where it is
it's like blocked but we're okay unless
we want it to not be okay
I don't know what else he's got on its
plate my lady no when doing testing
testing stuff and proving proving JSI
PFS tests and that's his main okay I've
heard a quarter I feel like we've
flagged this in a previous core
implemented meeting but like this is
blocking and we would like for it not to
be blocking and so like yeah I like it
feels like we can't land this super
nicely until we have a spec for it
because we can't communicate what it is
and how it works so I guess there's and
this would then be an additional
transport for IP NS that would be really
fast
semi centralized but really fast and
that that gives some additional benefits
though as you mentioned not critical for
the file systems cool very useful for
everyone else who wants to rely on IP NS
for say making their gaps work quickly
and nicely so that it it seems like if
if it's feasible for us to push this
forward and I think it's probably higher
priority than improving like a 1/4 long
goal to improve JSF EFS testing and
coverage then we should push on this
sooner rather than later because it's
blocking others whereas the other stuff
isn't that would be my my analysis it's
also its most like another for one thing
it's like he spent a couple days right
expect me done yeah it was so yeah it's
not like basically it doesn't any sense
the blocks of media first priority
absolute long term on something to
distort and like
yeah that's fine we can flag that
although I don't think it's gonna be
like necessarily just a couple of days
because there hasn't been a crazy amount
of review on the thing and so before it
becomes this back and gets moved over to
start doing go things we're gonna need
to have some review time and make sure
we're all yeah there will be some
spective either a couple things I'd like
to change as well so guy but I don't
think it'll all right it'll probably
take about a week of total stuff yeah
yep that's fine we can flag that I'll
I'll pay him
you
that sounds good I don't know if y'all
will be able to organize that for this
week but I can keep the track of that
maybe next week becomes the solvus a
week a little bit awesome so humblest
which would be great moving things off
the place feels really good
well attendant we answer your question
or not really um not really but that's
not really is it okay answer to it just
means that I have to make some decisions
I just need to know if anyone else
needed anything that was gonna prompt
the decision-making
although cerveja things go bust need
something can talk later
well
on kick on I suppose and try to ship
smaller things if we can
so knowing worked following up with lots
of people which doesn't feel like work
but it's important work and maybe I'll
mail all of you some cookies or
something if we finish a thing and can
say like I pianist is good faster you
know many people would be super happy
about that lots and lots of people so
you can start if you like adding to if
you have some spare time you can start
working on a blog post or something like
this is what or anything
I guess no I yes I actually need to like
formally write off the pub/sub I'm
connects back in how that changes from
how we're currently using it so I should
probably just do that
this wimpy good
and if you
making issue please do that as a
separate thing that way it's in our
little and progress column and we're
good to go
okay um anyone else who's that or who
would like to be up for the week even if
you're just saying I'm good to go I know
what is happening this week just let us
know
I can go thank you yeah so had a chat
with Steven yesterday about taking on
the performance work around adding files
and go I haven't had a chance to start
yet because part of the say there was an
issue opened on the Jedi beavers repo
about some of these having problems
adding large folders to like to chose
forgive us something somewhere is eating
all the memory but it's not a memory
leak because after a while the memory
that it's consuming gets garbage
collected so what it is is chairing this
refactor from pool streams to a think
iterator something somewhere in the
memory usage profile has changed that
means that all the stuff is now bucking
up into memory which was in his case was
causing the process to get killed
because he's running it on a machine
that didn't have a whole lot of memory
and is a virtual machine my suspicion is
with no swap space configured good
hopefully what I'm saying is interesting
and it's worth listening to
so how did it work chat without and
we're gonna try and remove a lot of the
misdirection that occurs to a stream of
bytes between you adding it and it
getting into IP FS which should make it
a little easier to because I can see
that from taking lots of heap dumps and
comparing them all the data is backing
up in node streams like in the streams
implementation in node core so there's
basically a there's a function in there
that says like can I can i omit this
data or should I buffer it Mena's
buffering it and crane this enormous
linked list structure stretches on
forever so yeah we're either not
assuming it quickly enough or we're
probably not this human basically which
means it all gets backed up but we
should be able to say don't consume this
data this quickly to the stream the high
automatic basically says you know I
don't want this is the size of Trump I
want don't give me too much data and
that is getting lost somewhere and so we
convert between async iterators and
streams and pool streams quite a lot in
the current code base but not too badly
in the file import path which is when
I'm looking at the bit that is
outstanding on that is the actual
importing the files from the ipfs layer
before it reaches the unix the first
manipulations I'm trying to take out all
the pool streams and stuff in that and
so it be also a sink it's races and so
that's what I'm doing at the moment sort
of emergency everything's on fire kind
of affair any questions
look unfair so that's called it's just
as calm exterior is in masking so you
probably won't be starting or working on
any of the FS ad steps this week I'm
gonna talk a little optimist I'd like to
think I fix tomorrow yeah thank you for
the update I can do that thing where we
choose the next person I suppose that
Stephen suggested although this one I
feel like it's less than choosing an
extant group discussion if anything
needs to be discussed on what we need to
do for the week so I was a new Valen
volunteer someone sure well I'll make it
easy Dirk you're probably doing the same
thing so yeah so I've been working quite
a bit with banner in their collaboration
so um this week I'm hoping to get to a
point where we can run some benchmarks
on their test lab so we'll have
something compare about compare against
as we're making improvements to bit swap
in the meantime I'm also working through
some idea
Stephen about how we can make this work
perform better for this use case and
just in general so yeah just on this
week any questions I'm just excited to
see what you're thinking about our
future of this swap that may or may not
be called bit swap I don't know what
y'all are gonna do yeah there's kind of
a couple of different avenues we're
pursuing them over yeah
Dominic you wanna go next am i audible
yes perfect
sure so this week I'm just basically
going to be continuing the work I've
been doing I'm a little behind on it
just because of some unexpected like
issues in particular at the moment not
to get too technical into it but like
I'm dealing with an issue where the core
API is giving me back some data that I
don't expect it's like extra data so
it's a little strange
um but yeah I'm it's it's like this
highly concurrent thing so I have to
constantly be stepping through the
debugger in an arduous way so I'm a
little little behind on that but um plan
to you know continue on this and get it
done Stephen says he wants to pair up on
that so I'm game I will warn you that I
want zero hours of sleep it's moment be
wary of that but I will definitely try
so yeah that's a that's basically it for
me outside of that like previous stuff
I've done is is not really related to
this yeah maybe sleep first and para
later that's yeah also you know Stephen
I think you're on West Coast yeah so
he's got like hours ahead of you
sleep is good
I guess there's me okay I think it's an
update which is I'm still thinking a bit
between the cluster stuff and the stuff
which is making my brain hurt but let's
see so this week I finished that service
blueprint at least enough for first
drafts like to share it with the world
and write up a thing on the package
managers Agrico that describes what that
isn't where it's going and as part of
that see if we can link oh these will
not see I will link all these efforts
and a summarized way into the bits of
that chart or not like how everything
fits together so hopefully we have a
little bit of a better overview we can
share a more accessible overview of why
we're doing with things that we're doing
for the broader community and for us
because I can't keep my head straight
from one day to the other as you can
hotel and I Oh Molly I owe you a couple
things around okay are some stuff I'll
get there sorry I just stuck a meeting
on our calendar pivot we mentioned
getting that last week yeah thank you
at a time so now we have a slot so we
shall not forget thank you thank you
and I also owe some like emails out to
the world with the heck is going on but
if it all goes well maybe I can send it
along with this like hey look at this
chart because pictures are nice and then
you don't read all things and cleaning
up Sun bored as usual which I still have
done today today yeah questions or
anything else you all would like me to
prioritize besides you know what the
heck doesn't she'll do on a daily basis
you
well anyone else want to give an update
what did I miss
so I've been doing some research into
the centralized discovery ongoing and
the writing but not very coherent right
now so still going on there we are
that might be all the things for the
week
and review have you seen some of the
schemes for like tossing tags in a DHT
for for decentralize discovery they're a
little there a little wonky and it's not
there how perform what they are but this
once a point does really feelings in the
one thing I I run into this week it's
the word discovery has different
meanings depending on the community the
people that you don't think there's very
much not looking at discovery from a
peer find me page find me content that
please have was more like how do I
search think search is the other word
although and there being quite
overloaded as well in that I don't Navy
identifies I want to be able to ask my
ps4 so I need to work out what they are
and rather then I know the identifiers
and I would like the network to right
now I need to discover who has pieces of
that that can can get at me and that
make sense yeah so there are some
schemes that do like in the same way
that for pub/sub we have like here's a
channel and then there's a bunch of
peers
you can also there are schemes where you
have like DHT is and you're putting like
you know I you know my name is you know
my name is Joe and then there's like a
thousand people who like claim their
name is Kjell and then you figure it out
from there and you sort of it's like tag
based search so it's not as nice as any
of the more complicated search
mechanisms but it's a thing you can do
if you have any any reading that sounds
pretty interesting and happy to check it
out
me
cool I'm excited for my brain comes back
and I can read such things also
important stuff we might build a great
system but we need to find things on the
system
anything else for your plans for the
week or otherwise besides sleeping
Dominic
yeah sleep there's a package managers
conference happening in October I found
about about two minutes after booking my
flights for a holiday on the same day
last night it's invite-only but I think
I can kind of say like well if you've
invited me and I can't go then invite
this person instead and someone
recommended that I say that Ares should
go I guess the main thing is that they
shouldn't just be like oh github package
repository is going to solve all our
problems and totally maybe have like an
opposing point of view there rather than
just someone who wants you have to
replace NPM and that'll solve all of our
problems people organizing it
get up the people behind you have
package repository because they now have
vested interest
we get up it has a vested interest in
being a back story of nothing but also
because they don't use a ton of the
bandwidth both they so they have this
new beter feature where you can you can
hardly read and the particles next
underneath the religious banner which is
different to like treating it as
cocoapods registry or let's go like
storage for a non-official yeah hub
Richmond they just wanna pill and
everything right so he goes get hub for
the source code get hub actions for your
CI and then they get hub registry for
deployment still Microsoft at the end of
the day you can't can teach an old dog
new tricks
yeah I mean that that areas like
highlighted are like oh all of this
wants a package made yeah hold it
but it's also like this those are these
are bad bits of packet vengeance they
probably need to be fixed to it and you
can definitely like just getting people
in the same room together might end up
being like oh my god business photos
bonds the way that funds us working on
practical matters will be will be
undermined if get out take control of
this so that might also happen and give
us why doing this just because they're
already the package manager for a lot of
big projects know how much stuff they
serve for us I know like so three dates
people tend to buy artifactory or some
type nexus or impairment prize or
packages PHP Enterprise alongside their
github enterprise and so get up alike
and get lab already have built in NPM
registry so there's a lot of chasing
whatever get lab doing as well and so
there's like and they built it like
three years ago and they struggle to
ship it until very recently so there's
like what they want to happen and what
actually happens
per this there's a long period of time
in between these things
and it's in a North Carolina right the
this conference could all things open I
don't remember where it is
I remember thinking and Ollie and I was
like really really really so all you
East Coast people it's not all that far
like you think paint Andrew if you want
to go so probably valid to poke Eric and
see if Eric is itching to attend is
there also I remember Eric went to
reproducible builds in October September
October of last year is that happening
again this year or is that I go heard
anything
I would imagine they'd be one again at
some point by okay we should keep an eye
out for that because that's a cool
gathering of humans and you mentioned
that a costume also has a ton of package
manager' folks that go to them okay
sorry my brain is there there are
thoughts back here but they're not up
here yet about different reproducible
builds and a lot of things but I'll work
on that later maybe I'll catch fun here
to chat but yeah what else anything
you can have time back into your day we
don't have to stay here you can be free
yeah exactly
or if you just want you know personal
support we can stop the recording you
can just leave this open and then start
work and complain about things if you
need to we're here for you okay I will
stop the recording we'll call this on a
day for planning for the week waves if
you want to